##Final Reflection

My expectations of what a digital humanities course would entail upon enrolling for this class did not extend beyond what I considered to be the intersection of technology and humanities. I expected to learn lessons in data storytelling, and the importance of digitization practices. While these lessons were learned, my biggest takeaway from this course has been defamiliarizing the familiar to reorient towards critical thinking and questioning. This tenet of Digital Humanities was taught to our class on the very first day within the lesson of skeuomorphism. It then became the framework by which I interacted with course material and assignments onwards. For instance, as we explored digitization methods in the Kislak center with advanced cameras and software I gathered how archival work requires a strong technical understanding of digitization software, but also a respect and artistic reverence for the spirit of archival work– and it is this interplay of skills that allows the world to have digital access to historic texts in a way that preserves their authenticity. When we visited Eastern State Penitentiary, I attempted to disorient myself from my biased understanding of prison systems to properly learn about how it operated as the first of its kind. In doing so, I was able to think critically and question wholeheartedly about the human experience at Eastern State before and after it became a maximum security establishment, and how this history laid the foundation for contemporary prison structures. This questioning lead me down a rabbit hole of sorts into the religious experience at Eastern State as it was mediated by carceral power and encouraged through penitence. I was able to research this by studying themes in Lester Smith’s (incarcerated person) art in my multimedia essay. This project to me truly encapsulates the essence of this class, as I employed skills in the humanities, art, and technology to answer questions about the human experience. 
